                                                       Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


                                                           Contents lists available at ScienceDirect


                                                 Journal of Building Engineering
                                                   journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jobe




Imbalanced data based fault diagnosis of the chiller via integrating
a new resampling technique with an improved ensemble extreme
learning machine
Hanyuan Zhang a, *, Wenxin Yang a, Weilin Yi b, Jit Bing Lim a, Zenghui An c,
Chengdong Li a
a
  Shandong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Buildings Technology, School of Information and Electrical Engineering, Shandong Jianzhu University,
Jinan, 250101, China
b
  The 30th Institute, China Electronics Technology Group Corporation, Chengdu, 610041, China
c
  School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Shandong Jianzhu University, Jinan, 250101, China




A R T I C L E I N F O                                    A B S T R A C T

Keywords:                                                Fault diagnosis of the chiller is essential to guarantee chiller’s safe operation and reduce building
Chiller                                                  energy consumption. However, the existing fault diagnosis methods rarely consider the chiller’s
Fault diagnosis                                          imbalanced data conditions, which always leads to low diagnosis accuracy of the minority class
Imbalanced data                                          samples. To figure out the issue of imbalanced fault pattern data during the chiller fault diagnosis,
Hybrid resampling                                        a hybrid resampling based improved extreme learning machine (HRIELM) is developed in our
Selective ensemble
                                                         work. A new hybrid resampling technique (HRT) is first proposed to balance the majority and
Extreme learning machine
                                                         minority classes in the imbalanced fault pattern datasets. The HRT is then carried out repetitively
                                                         to obtain multiple diverse rebalanced training datasets using different benchmark datasets.
                                                         Subsequently, various primary extreme learning machine (ELM) models are established utilizing
                                                         these rebalanced training datasets. Furthermore, an improved ELM model based on a novel se­
                                                         lective ensemble learning strategy is presented to enhance the effectiveness of the chiller fault
                                                         diagnosis. The basic ELM models with superior performance for diagnosing the neighbor subset
                                                         constructed according to the fault snapshot sample are first picked out, and a weight factor is
                                                         further defined to build the final selective ensemble ELM model. Finally, the fault pattern of the
                                                         snapshot sample is identified according to the weighted voting mechanism. Detailed experimental
                                                         results on the ASHRAE Research Project RP-1043 experimental datasets certify the effectiveness
                                                         of the presented HRIELM scheme for the chiller fault diagnosis under the imbalanced data
                                                         environments.




1. Introduction
   As an important component of the heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) system, the chiller can greatly influence the
overall running status of the HVAC [1]. If the chiller with faults is not maintained timely, the control strategy of the chiller will become
invalid which would deteriorate the HVAC’s operating effectiveness. When fault diagnosis techniques are adopted to repair the faults
occurring in the chiller, the energy consumption of the HVAC system can be reduced by about 30% [2]. Therefore, the fault diagnosis of



    * Corresponding author.
    E-mail address: zhanghanyuan18@sdjzu.edu.cn (H. Zhang).


https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jobe.2023.106338
Received 30 December 2022; Received in revised form 13 March 2023; Accepted 18 March 2023
Available online 21 March 2023
2352-7102/© 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                   Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


chiller is of great significance to reduce the building energy consumption and increase the building comfort. Recently, the research on
fault detection and diagnosis of chiller systems has gradually become one of the hot issues. However, for most data-driven based
methods, the models are usually trained on the balanced fault pattern datasets of the chiller, which results in poor fault diagnosis
performance for the minority class samples [3].
    The data imbalance phenomenon among different chiller’s fault patterns mainly results from the troublesome issue of gathering
insufficient fault pattern samples as well as some specific fault patterns possess much higher occurrence frequencies than that of other
fault patterns [4,5]. The imbalanced datasets refer to at least one fault pattern subset (the minority class) that is usually outnumbered
by the other fault pattern subsets (the majority class). Specifically, the detailed reasons which give rise to the problem of the chiller’s
data imbalance are analyzed in Section 3.2. Whereas, the traditional chiller fault diagnosis models are constructed on the balanced
fault pattern datasets by maximizing the overall diagnosis accuracy. When the traditional fault diagnosis models are employed to
recognize the imbalanced fault snapshot datasets of the chiller, the minority class samples with greater interest than the majority class
samples may be misclassified in most cases. Therefore, an improved fault diagnosis method is urgently needed to enhance the fault
diagnosis accuracy of the minority classes. As the two typical data sampling level methods, the synthetic minority over-sampling
technique (SMOTE) based over-sampling [6,7] and the random under-sampling [8,9] possess complementary advantages and
shortcomings to deal with the problem of imbalanced data. Therefore, it is essential to come up with a new data resampling technique
by incorporating the SMOTE based over-sampling with the random under-sampling, for the purpose of figuring out the chiller’s data
imbalanced problem.
    After the imbalanced datasets of the chiller are rebalanced, the data-driven based fault diagnosis techniques are usually employed
to efficiently analyze the data. Currently, the extreme learning machine (ELM) based fault diagnosis algorithms have attracted more
and more attention by virtue of their fast learning speed and good generalization performance [10,11]. Nonetheless, the fault iden­
tification accuracy and robustness of the single ELM model still need to be reinforced. Fortunately, the ensemble learning strategy has
been applied to enhance the accuracy and robustness of the single ELM based fault diagnosis models by integrating a large number of
basic ELM models [12,13]. However, the conventional ensemble learning based ELM fault diagnosis approaches have some short­
comings. On the one hand, when the number of integrated basic ELM models increases, it becomes more and more difficult to
distinguish the performance differences among the numerous basic ELM diagnosis models. On the other hand, the more basic ELM
diagnosis models are utilized, the greater the computation complexity of the final ensemble model will possess. In order to tackle the
aforementioned defects of the traditional ensemble learning algorithms, a lot of studies about the selective ensemble learning ap­
proaches have been conducted and reported [14–16]. Inspired by the advantages of selective ensemble learning, we put forward an
improved ELM fault diagnosis model to identify the chiller’s faults after the historical fault pattern datasets are rebalanced, where a
new selective ensemble learning scheme is infused into the standard ELM algorithm.
    In our work, to figure out the above mentioned tough issues, a new hybrid resampling based improved ELM (HRIELM) diagnosis
scheme is presented to efficiently recognize the faults of the chiller under the imbalanced fault pattern data environments. To be
specific, a new hybrid resampling technique (HRT) is first constructed to rebalance the imbalanced fault pattern datasets of the chiller
by incorporating the synthetic minority over-sampling technique (SMOTE) with the random under-sampling. On the basis of the
rebalanced fault pattern datasets, an improved selective ensemble learning based ELM fault diagnosis strategy is further developed to
recognize the patterns of fault snapshot datasets by effectively choosing the multiple basic ELM models with superior diagnosis ac­
curacies and performance. Our main contributions are given out.
   (1) To rebalance the imbalanced historical fault pattern datasets of the chiller, a novel HRT approach is presented by integrating the
       SMOTE over-sampling method with the random under-sampling method. A benchmark dataset is first determined from the C
       kinds of imbalanced fault pattern datasets. The SMOTE over-sampling method is then employed to enlarge the minority datasets
       whose numbers of the samples are smaller than that of the benchmark dataset by generating the artificial synthetic samples,
       while the random under-sampling method is utilized to shrink the majority datasets whose numbers of the samples are larger
       than that of the benchmark dataset by randomly eliminating the samples. Therefore, the C kinds of the imbalanced fault pattern
       datasets are rebalanced to have the same number of samples as that of the benchmark dataset.
   (2) To accelerate the training process and reduce the computational burden during the chiller fault diagnosis, the standard ELM
       which owns fast learning speed and excellent generalization performance is employed as the basic fault diagnosis model. To be
       specific, every imbalanced dataset of the C kinds fault patterns is regarded as the benchmark dataset, hence the developed HRT
       method is repetitively performed to acquire a total of C different rebalanced training datasets, each of which also involves C
       classes balanced fault pattern datasets. Afterward, to lay a solid foundation for the subsequent selective ensemble learning based
       fault diagnosis scheme, the number of C various basic ELM diagnosis models are respectively constructed on these C different
       rebalanced training datasets.
   (3) To further strengthen the fault diagnosis effectiveness of the chiller and alleviate the computation complexity, a modified se­
       lective ensemble learning strategy is established by distinguishing the different diagnosis capabilities of the multiple basic ELM
       models trained on the diverse rebalanced training datasets. The nearest neighbors of the fault snapshot sample are first searched
       in the verification dataset to establish the neighbor subset. After the basic ELM models with the superior fault diagnosis per­
       formance for the neighbor subset are picked out, a weight factor is further defined to construct the final ensemble ELM based
       fault diagnosis model. At last, the pattern of the fault snapshot sample is identified by the developed selective ensemble ELM
       model according to the weighted voting mechanism.
   (4) Detailed experiments of the proposed hybrid resampling based improved ELM (HRIELM) based fault diagnosis scheme is carried
       out on the ASHRAE RP-1043 datasets, and abundant comparisons with the interrelated fault diagnosis methods are given out.


                                                                    2
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                  Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


        The remarkable capability of the developed HRT to handle the chiller’s imbalanced data is first proved in our experiments.
        Afterward, the experiments and comparisons exhibit that the presented HRIELM scheme achieves outstanding fault diagnosis
        effectiveness and reveals significant performance improvements in comparison with the interrelated approaches.
    The structure of this paper is formulated as: Section 2 gives out a detailed literature review of our work, while Section 3 introduces
the operating principle of the chiller and analyzes the problem of the chiller’s data imbalance in detail. The developed HRT algorithm
is described elaborately in Section 4. The presented selective ensemble learning based ELM diagnosis model is comprehensively
constructed in Section 5. Section 6 provides the suggested HRIELM based fault diagnosis scheme for the chiller under imbalanced data
conditions. Detailed experimental results are carried out in Section 7. Finally, the conclusions are provided in Section 8.

2. Background
    In recent years, various fault diagnosis techniques have been applied to the HVAC system to guarantee efficient building energy
utilization and favorable occupant comfort [17,18]. The existing fault diagnosis techniques are primarily classified into model [19,20]
and data-driven based approaches [21–23]. As a typical fault diagnosis technique, the model based approaches have been studied by
many researchers to maintain the HVAC system running normally. For instance, based on the P&ID control strategy and the model
architecture, Taal et al. [24] developed a novel diagnostic Bayesian network to recognize the faults of the HVAC system automatically.
Fan et al. [25] extracted the practical physical operation information from the factory installed sensors to establish the modified
support vector machine (SVM) based diagnosis models for recognizing the chiller’s seven typical faults. By integrating an advanced
Bayesian nonlinear state estimation technique with a back-smoothing method, Bonvini et al. [26] proposed an operational mechanism
based model to detect the energy and hydraulic faults of the chiller. However, the model based fault diagnosis methods commonly have
difficulty in acquiring quantitative physical knowledge of the operation status of the chiller, air handling unit (AHU), and other
components of the HVAC system. Besides, the performance of the model based fault diagnosis methods is often affected by the strong
nonlinearity and time-varying dynamics of the chiller. Thus, these model based approaches would result in the unsatisfied fault
diagnosis performance for the complex, large-scale HVAC system.
    A large number of data-driven based approaches have been suggested to diagnose the faults of the chiller recently. For example,
with the help of adapting decision boundaries, Van et al. [27] combined the transfer component analysis and the SVM to transmit the
knowledge among different chillers. By treating the fault diagnosis task as a multi-class classification problem, Li et al. [28] suggested
an improved linear discriminant analysis method to realize the chiller fault diagnosis. Liu et al. [29] proposed a new association al­
gorithm based fault diagnosis method to extract the operational rules of the chiller by association rule mining. In addition, we have
conducted some studies to detect and recognize the faults of the chiller and AHU by combining the slow feature analysis based ap­
proaches with the deep learning based approaches [30–34]. Based on the above reviewed literature, it can be found that the
data-driven based approaches have been extensively utilized to identify the chiller fault. However, during the actual running of the
chiller, historical fault pattern datasets are often imbalanced, which simultaneously contain the majority class datasets and the mi­
nority class datasets. Under the chiller’s imbalanced data environments, these data-driven based approaches have the common
shortcoming that they tend to maximize the overall fault diagnosis accuracy while ignoring the chiller’s minority class fault patterns
[3].
    To strengthen the diagnosis effectiveness under the imbalanced data conditions, the studies from the levels of data sampling [35],
cost-sensitive learning [36], bagging, and boosting based ensemble [37] have been reported in recent years. At the data sampling level,
over-sampling and under-sampling are the most popular approaches to tackle the problem of imbalanced data. The under-sampling
and over-sampling approaches transform the imbalanced datasets into the balanced datasets by removing the majority class sam­
ples or augmenting the minority class samples. As a classical over-sampling method, the synthetic minority over-sampling technique
(SMOTE) and its improved versions are becoming more and more popular. Particularly, by combining the SMOTE with random search
algorithm and gradient boosting tree method, Chen et al. [6] presented an improved ensemble classifier to achieve efficient and ac­
curate rock trace identification. To consider the distribution information of the training data and exploit its internal structure, Zhang
et al. [7] discussed an instance weighted SMOTE method with enhanced robustness by indirectly utilizing the data distribution.
Although the SMOTE based over-sampling approaches are widely utilized to handle the imbalanced data, the existing methods may
suffer from the limitations of overlapping synthetic samples and the distribution marginalization, i.e., the boundary between majority
class samples and minority class samples is blurred. Therefore, the improvements for the SMOTE based over-sampling methods need to
be made to generate high quality samples to augment the minority classes.
    Random under-sampling is another extensively adopted algorithm to settle the issue of data imbalance at the data sampling level.
The random under-sampling algorithm rebalances the data samples in majority and minority classes by randomly decreasing the
samples in majority classes according to the number of samples in a benchmark class. Lu al et [8]. suggested a new fault diagnosis
method to distinguish the motor bearings’ operation conditions by under-sampling the vibration signals. In order to improve the
prediction of extracellular matrix proteins, Kabir et al. [9] utilized a modified asymmetric under-sampling approach to avoid the class
imbalance problem, and then adopted the SVM to perform cross validation for each dataset. Nevertheless, because the datasets are
rebalanced by eliminating some samples from the majority classes, the random under-sampling algorithm may ignore a large amount
of useful and meaningful information of the majority classes.
    Based on the rebalanced datasets of the chiller, the ELM based fault diagnosis algorithms have attracted more and more attention
due to their fast learning speed and good generalization performance [10,11]. For instance, to improve the diagnosis performance of
the vibration signal, Wang et al. [38] put forward an optimized extreme leaning machine by integrating with an adaptive weight


                                                                    3
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                       Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


particle swarm optimization model. Yan et al. [39] combined the modified Kalman filter with an improved ELM model to diagnose the
AHU system fault by classifying the time series. Based on an enhanced kernel ELM with the random features representation, Liu et al.
[12] presented a new network based method to identify the misuse of computer systems. Although various applications have displayed
the decent diagnosis results of the ELM based approaches, the single ELM model’s diagnosis accuracy and robustness are need to be
enhanced.
    By fusing multiple basic ELM models, the ensemble learning strategy has been discussed to improve the performance of the single
ELM based fault diagnosis models [12–14]. Nevertheless, with the increment of the integrated basic ELM models, it becomes more
difficult to distinguish the basic ELM diagnosis models’ performance differences, and the final ensemble model will possess the greater
computation complexity. In recent years, the selective ensemble learning approaches have been studied to handle the shortcomings of
the traditional ensemble learning algorithms. For example, by building a novel soft selection strategy to weight several machine
learning models, Lv et al. [14] established an efficient model combination process and evaluated the validation accuracy of the model
ensemble. To deal with the data’s dynamic characteristics changing along with time, Jin et al. [15] discussed a modified forecasting
method using the selective ensemble to perform wind power forecasting. Li et al. [16] suggested a beetle antennae search algorithm
based on an improved selective ensemble technique to diagnose the rolling bearing faults. Therefore, based on the advantages of
selective ensemble learning, an improved ELM fault diagnosis model is urgent to be established for recognizing the chiller’s faults.

3. The operating mechanism and imbalanced data of the chiller
    To promote understanding of the presented imbalanced data based fault diagnosis scheme for the chiller, the operating mechanism
of the chiller is first explained and the data imbalance phenomenon is then revealed.

3.1. Introduction of the chiller
    As the major constituent part of the HVAC, the chiller is to adjust the temperature of the room through the circulation of the
refrigerant. Fig. 1 gives out the refrigerant flow path in the chiller [4,32]. As displayed in Fig. 1, The chiller system is formed by four
basic components, which are the compressor, condenser, evaporator, and throttle valve. Among them, the compressor is the core
component of the chiller, and its function is to provide energy for the circulation of the chiller. The condenser and evaporator are two
heat exchangers which responsible for the heat exchange between the chiller system and the environment. The throttle valve connects
the condenser and the evaporator, which can reduce the pressure and the temperature of the liquid in the refrigeration pipeline. To sum
up, the chiller continuously exchanges heat with the indoor and outdoor environments by the flow of refrigerant in the major
components.
    In the actual running of the chiller, the duration of normal operation is much longer than that of the operation with faults. Even the
faults arise, some specific fault patterns own much higher occurrence frequencies than that of other fault patterns. Therefore, the
sufficient fault pattern samples are always unavailable and the numbers of different fault pattern samples are usually imbalanced, i.e.,
at least one fault pattern dataset (the minority class) is usually outnumbered by the other fault pattern datasets (the majority class).

3.2. The chiller’s data imbalance problem
   At present, more and more researchers have employed the data-driven based approaches to diagnosis the faults of the chiller.
However, in the practical scenarios, the problem of the chiller data imbalance severely affects the fault identification accuracies of the
minority fault patterns, thus having a negative impact on the traditional fault diagnosis method [40,41]. The phenomenon of data
imbalance is caused by (i) the fault pattern samples are more insufficient compared with the normal operation samples; (ii) the
numbers of some fault pattern datasets are far less than that of other fault pattern datasets due to the different occurrence frequencies.
To be specific, the primary reasons for inducing the imbalanced data of the chiller are analyzed as follows [41].




                                               Fig. 1. The schematic diagram of the chiller [4,32].


                                                                        4
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                    Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


   (1) During the running of the chiller, the duration of normal operation is much longer than that of the operation with faults. Even if
       a fault occurs in the chiller, the fault will be repaired timely to bring the chiller back to normal operation. The above two aspects
       make it difficult to collect the adequate fault pattern data samples.
   (2) In the real practical operation, if the rapid hard faults arise in the components of the chiller, such as the compressor, evaporator,
       and so on, will bring about the chiller shut down completely soon. Although the fault pattern data can be achieved by the
       experiments in the laboratory, the experiments not only need large economic costs but also give rise to potential danger.
       Therefore, the enough fault pattern data samples for the components of the chiller are not always available.
   (3) In the case of the faults happening, different fault patterns have different occurrence frequencies. Because of the unique
       operation characteristics of the chiller, some specific fault patterns possess much higher occurrence frequencies than that of
       other fault patterns. For instance, the occurrence probability of the reduced condenser water flow fault pattern is generally
       much larger than the occurrence probability of the refrigerant leak fault pattern.
   (4) For the fault patterns with different amplitudes, the probabilities of faults with large amplitudes are always lower than that of
       the faults with small amplitudes. Hence, the samples of the faults with large amplitude are more difficult to be measured and
       collected. For example, the samples of the Excess oil fault pattern with 50% amplitude are more difficult to be gathered than that
       of the Excess oil fault pattern with 14% amplitude, however, the former is more harmful to the chiller.
   (5) Before building the fault diagnosis models, the actually collected datasets are usually needed to discern the steady states and
       eliminate the outliers for the data preprocessing. However, the data preprocessing procedure is generally uncontrollable, which
       leads the balanced datasets to be imbalanced to a certain extent. The traditional chiller fault diagnosis models are constructed
       on the balanced fault pattern datasets by maximizing the overall diagnosis accuracy.

   All in all, in the actual operation of the chiller, the observed and stored process datasets are often imbalanced due to multiple
reasons. Nevertheless, most existing fault diagnosis models cannot be trained well on the imbalanced datasets to identify the fault
patterns of the minority class snapshot samples. Therefore, according to the practical running of the chiller, it is very significant to
investigate an improved chiller fault diagnosis approach under the imbalanced data conditions.

4. The developed HRT approach for handling the imbalanced data
    In the practical operation, the historical fault pattern datasets of the chiller are always imbalanced due to the complex running
characteristics. However, most traditional fault diagnosis models cannot be well trained on the imbalanced datasets of the chiller,
which would result in much higher fault diagnosis error rates for the minority fault patterns. To figure out the problem of data
imbalance, in our work, a new HRT method is constructed to rebalance the imbalanced historical fault pattern datasets of the chiller by
combining the SMOTE over-sampling and the random under-sampling. In the beginning, the original imbalanced datasets of the chiller
are supposed to involve the C kinds of the fault pattern. In the developed HRT method, one of the C classes imbalanced fault pattern
subsets is determined as the benchmark dataset by the users. For the minority class datasets whose numbers of the samples are smaller
than that of the benchmark dataset, the SMOTE over-sampling is applied to augment the samples to enlarge the minority datasets to be
balanced. Besides, the artificially augmented samples have an identical clustering effect with the original minority datasets. For the
majority class datasets whose numbers of the samples are larger than that of the benchmark dataset, the random under-sampling is
adopted to randomly eliminate the samples to shrink the datasets. In this way, the imbalanced fault pattern datasets can be rebalanced
to have the same number of samples as that of the benchmark dataset. The schematic diagram of hybrid sampling is shown in Fig. 2.

4.1. The SMOTE over-sampling method
    The goal of the SMOTE over-sampling algorithm is to synthesize new samples through a linear combination of the minority samples
and their neighboring samples, so as to expand the number of samples in the minority dataset [6,7]. The flowchart of the SMOTE
over-sampling algorithm is displayed in Fig. 3.
    Let the dataset X0 containing n0 data samples indicates the determined the benchmark dataset in the C classes imbalanced datasets,
and the current resampling minority dataset is expressed as the Xmin involving nmin data samples. The new artificial sample xnew (j), j =
1, 2, ⋯, n0 − nmin is produced by randomly combining the original sample xi in the dataset Xmin with its nearest neighbors. The nearest
neighbor samples of the original sample xi can be sought out by calculating the Euclidean distance d(xi , xf ) as follows.




                                                  Fig. 2. The flowchart of the developed HRT.


                                                                      5
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                    Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338




                                                    Fig. 3. The schematic diagram of the SMOTE over-sampling method.


         (       ) √̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
                    ⃦               ⃦2
        d xi , xf = ⃦xi − xf ⃦ , f = 1, 2, ⋯, nmin − 1                                                                                                        (1)

where xf represents the sample in the dataset Xmin except for the sample xi .
   After the Euclidean distances between the sample xi and the samples xf , f = 1, 2, ⋯, nmin − 1 are computed, these Euclidean dis­
tances are sorted from small to large. In this manner, the distance vector D constructed utilizing the rearranged Euclidean distances is
expressed as

        D = [d(xi , x1 ), d(xi , x2 ), ⋯, d(xi , xk ), ⋯, d(xi , xnmin − 1 )]T                                                                                (2)

where x1 indicates the sample in the minority dataset X min corresponding to the smallest Euclidean distance d(xi , x1 ), x2 denotes the
sample in the dataset Xmin with the second smallest Euclidean distance d(xi , x2 ), and so on.
   The samples xk , k = 1, 2, ⋯, K corresponding to the first K smallest Euclidean distances d(xi , x1 ), d(xi , x2 ), ⋯, d(xi , xK ) are chosen as
the K nearest neighbor samples of the sample xi . Subsequently, the mean value xk of the K nearest neighbors is calculated as

               1 ∑K
        xk =         xk                                                                                                                                       (3)
               K k=1

    After that, the new artificial sample xnew (j) of the original sample xi is reconstructed as
        xnew (j) = xi + rand(0, 1) ·|xi − xk |                                                                                                                (4)

where the symbol rand(0, 1) indicates random distribution on the interval of [0, 1].
   Note that, in the case of the SMOTE over-sampling algorithm, the relationship between the benchmark dataset samples n0 and the
current minority dataset samples nmin can be expressed as
        n0 = a · nmin + b                                                                                                                                     (5)

        = 0 and b < nmin .
where a ∕
  Based on Eq. (5), there are two cases to randomly synthesize n0 − nmin samples, which are formulated as follows.
   (1) Under the circumstance of b = 0, all the nmin samples in the current minority dataset are adopted to randomly reconstruct the
       n0 − nmin samples by repeating the above introduced procedure of the SMOTE over-sampling.
                        = 0, the original b samples are first stochastically selected from the current minority dataset. Then, the selected
   (2) In the case of b ∕
       original b samples are utilized to produce the new artificial synthesized b samples and the nmin current minority dataset samples
       are finally employed to randomly generate the nmin · (a − 1) by repeating the procedure of the SMOTE over-sampling.


4.2. The random under-sampling algorithm
     When the number of samples nmax in the current resampling dataset Xmax is larger than the samples n0 in the benchmark dataset X 0 ,
i.e., nmax > n0 , the random under-sampling algorithm [8,9] exhibited in Fig. 4 is carried out to randomly eliminate some samples in the

                                                                                   6
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                 Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


current majority class dataset X max .
    All the nmax samples in the current majority dataset Xmax = [xmax (1), xmax (2), ⋯, xmax (nmax )]T are first stochastically rearranged to
establish a new dataset Xnew
                          max .

        Xnew
         max = [xmax (r(1)), xmax (r(2)), ⋯, xmax (r(nmax ))]
                                                             T
                                                                                                                                                           (6)

where the vector xmax (i), i = 1, 2, ⋯, nmax represents the i-th sample in the majority class dataset Xmax . The vector r =
[r(1), r(2), ⋯, r(nmax )]T denotes a random vector whose elements r(i), i = 1, 2, ⋯, nmax are the randomly selected integers form the in­
terval of [1, nmax ] without repetition.
    What’s more, the random vector r is defined as follows.
        r = randperm(nmax , nmax )                                                                                                                         (7)

where the randperm(nmax , nmax ) means to generate the nmax random integers form 1 to nmax without repetition.
  Then, the first n0 samples in the dataset X new                                                  reb
                                               max remained to construct the rebalanced dataset X max , while the other superfluous
samples are removed. In particular, the rebalanced dataset Xreb
                                                            max is reconstructed as

        Xreb
         max = [xmax (r(1)), xmax (r(2)), ⋯, xmax (r(n0 ))]
                                                           T
                                                                                                                                                           (8)

4.3. The implementation of the developed HRT technique
    As described in Fig. 5, the detailed procedure of the proposed HRT approach is given out in our work. The HRT is indeed an
integration of the SMOTE over-sampling and the random under-sampling, which has the ability to effectively settle the problem of the
imbalanced fault pattern datasets. To be specific, the benchmark dataset X0 with the number of samples n0 is first selected from the C
classes imbalanced fault pattern datasets. Afterward, the number of samples ni in the current i-th resampling dataset Xi is compared
with the number of samples n0 . If ni is smaller than n0 , the current resampling dataset Xi is regarded as the minority class dataset Xmin ,
and the SMOTE over-sampling is subsequently utilized to generate the n0 − nmin artificially synthesized samples. If ni is larger than n0 ,
the current resampling dataset Xi is identified as the majority class dataset X max , and the random under-sampling is then employed to
randomly wipe off the nmax − n0 samples. The above procedures are repeated C − 1 times to rebalance the C kinds of the imbalanced
fault pattern datasets.

5. The proposed ELM diagnosis model based on an improved selective ensemble learning strategy
    After the imbalanced fault pattern datasets are rebalanced, the ELM network is adopted to diagnose the faults of the chiller on
account of the ELM’s fast learning speed and good generalization ability. Whereas, because the fault diagnosis accuracy and robustness
of the single ELM model are unsatisfied, in our work, the number of C various ELM basic models are built on the C diverse rebalanced
training datasets. Specifically, every fault pattern dataset in the C classes imbalanced datasets is determined as the benchmark dataset
X0 , hence the developed HRT method is repeated C times to achieve a total of C rebalanced training datasets. It should be noted that
each rebalanced training dataset still includes the C kinds of fault pattern subsets. To effectively choose the basic ELM models owning
the superior fault diagnosis performances from the number of C basic ELM models, a revised ensemble learning ELM based scheme is
established with the aid of putting forward a novel selective ensemble learning strategy in this paper. At last, the selected multiple
basic ELM models are integrated together to construct the final ensemble diagnosis model, for the purpose of identifying the pattern of
the fault snapshot dataset. In addition, the improved selective ensemble learning based ELM diagnosis strategy also contributes to
reducing the computation complexity of the final ensemble model. The detailed schematic diagram of the proposed selective ensemble
learning based ELM diagnosis strategy is displayed in Fig. 6.

5.1. The multiple basic ELM models training
    In this paper, the developed HRT approach is implemented repetitively to resample a total of C rebalanced training datasets by




                                                Fig. 4. The flowchart of the random under-sampling algorithm.


                                                                             7
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                              Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338




                                             Fig. 5. The detailed procedure of the proposed HRT approach.




                          Fig. 6. The schematic diagram of suggested selective ensemble learning based ELM diagnosis strategy.


regarding every dataset in the C kinds of imbalanced fault pattern datasets as the benchmark dataset. Subsequently, as illustrated in
Fig. 7, the number of C various basic ELM models are trained on these rebalanced training datasets to manage the drawbacks of single
ELM model’s unsatisfactory fault diagnosis results and robustness. Based on a specific rebalanced training dataset, one of the C various
basic ELM fault diagnosis models is built as follows.
   As shown in Fig. 8, the ELM is a special single hidden layer feed-forward neural network (SLFNs) with an input layer, output layer,
and hidden layer, which can provide good classification performance at extremely fast training speed [42].
    For the specific rebalanced training dataset {X, Y} = {xi , yi }Ni=1 involving the C kinds of fault pattern subsets, where N is the number
of the whole samples, xi indicates a m-dimensional data sample and yi represents a category attribute vector. The relationship between
the weight vector βi connecting the i-th hidden node to output nodes, the ELM’s output oj and the activation function G(wi · x +bi ) is
expressed as




                                                                           8
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                     Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338




                                           Fig. 7. The flowchart of training the multiple basic ELM fault diagnosis models.




                                                         Fig. 8. The structure diagram of the basic ELM model.


        ∑
        L
                   (            )
               βi G wi · xj + bi = oj , j = 1, ⋯, N                                                                                                            (9)
         i=1


where L denotes the number of nodes in the hidden layer, wi indicates the weight vector connecting input nodes to the i-th hidden node,
and bi indicates the bias of the i-th hidden node.
    A notable feature of the ELM is that the weights wi and the bias bi could be obtained randomly in the light of continuous probability
distribution. Particularly, the activation function G(wi · x +bi ) is selected as the sigmoid function in this paper, which is formulated as
                                       1
        G(wi · x + bi ) =                                                                                                                                     (10)
                            1 + exp( − (wi · x + bi ))

    To obtain much better classification effectiveness, the ELM is further enhanced to acquire both the smallest training error ‖O − Y‖2
and the smallest output weights norm ‖β‖2 . The O = [o1 , o2 , ⋯, oN ]T ∈ RN×n1 indicates the output of the ELM, Y = [y1 , y2 , ⋯, yN ]T ∈ RN×n1
represents the target matrix of the rebalanced training dataset X and n1 denotes the dimension of the output layer.
   Therefore, the optimization objective of ELM is rewritten as [43].


                                                                                  9
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                    Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338

                     ⃦ ⃦2
               ̃ ∑N ⃦ ⃦
             2 C     ⃦ ⃦
         ‖β‖ +       ⃦ ei ⃦
               2 i=1 ⃦ ⃦                                                                                                                                     (11)

         s. t. h(xi )β = yi T − ei T , i = 1, 2, ..., N

where ei represents the error vector of the output nodes related to the i-th data sample xi , and C
                                                                                                  ̃ indicates a penalty coefficient
associated with errors.
   From the objective function of the ELM, the smaller the training error and the weight norm are, the better the generalization
performance of the ELM tends to possess. Therefore, the ELM’s objective function provides a solid theoretical foundation for good
generalization performance.
   According to the theory of Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT), the objective function of the ELM is equivalent to the dual optimization
problem of the following equation.
                                ⃦
                          ̃ ∑N ⃦
                                ⃦ 2 ∑ (
                                          N
                   1      C                                           )
       LELM = min ‖ β‖ +2
                                ⃦ ei ‖ −     αi h(xi )β − yi T + ei T                                                          (12)
              β,αi 2      2 i=1 ⃦        i=1


where αi indicates the Lagrange multiplier.
  The output weight vector β can be obtained by solving the above optimization problem. After the vector β is determined, the ELM’s
output matrix O = [o1 , o2 , …oN ]T of the rebalanced training dataset X can be calculated as
        O = Hβ                                                                                                                                               (13)

where H represents the mapping matrix that randomly transforms the original rebalanced training dataset X into high-dimensional
nonlinear space.
           ⎡        ⎤ ⎡                                       ⎤
             h(x1 )       G(w1 · x1 + b1 ) ⋯ G(wL · x1 + bL )
      H=   ⎣   ⋮    ⎦ = ⎣        ⋮         ⋯        ⋮         ⎦                                                            (14)
             h(xN )       G(w1 · xN + b1 ) ⋯ G(wL · xN + bL ) N×L

In our work, we repeat the above recommended training procedure of the ELM on the number of C diverse rebalanced training datasets
to gain the C various basic ELM models.


5.2. The improved selective ensemble learning strategy
    Due to the discrepant fault diagnosis performance of the C basic ELM models founded on the various rebalanced training datasets,
we come up with an improved selective ensemble learning strategy to pick out the basic ELM models with superior diagnosis capa­
bilities to set up a novel ensemble ELM based fault diagnosis scheme for the chiller. As exhibited in Fig. 9, the k nearest neighbor
samples of the current fault snapshot sample xt are searched in the verification dataset XV which also contains the C classes fault
pattern subsets, then all the C basic ELM models are applied to diagnose the fault patterns of the determined k nearest neighbors related




                                         Fig. 9. The schematic diagram of the improved selective ensemble learning strategy.


                                                                                 10
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                 Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


to the xt . Afterward, the basic ELM fault diagnosis models whose diagnosis accuracies are greater than the average accuracy of all the
basic ELM models are chosen and adopted to construct the final ensemble ELM model according to the weight factor defined in our
work. The constructed ensemble ELM based model is eventually employed to recognize the pattern of the fault snapshot dataset by
virtue of the weighted voting mechanism, which reveals the remarkable improvement of the fault diagnosis effectiveness as well as the
significant reduction of the computation complexity.

5.2.1. Select the basic ELM model with remarkable diagnosis performance
   Given the number of C basic ELM fault diagnosis models and the validation dataset X V consisting of the C kinds of fault patterns, the
specific implementation steps of the proposed selective ensemble learning strategy are revealed in Fig. 10.
   For the current fault snapshot sample xt , the Euclidean distances between the sample xt and all the samples in the verification
dataset XV = [xv (1), xv (2), ⋯, xv (NV )]T are calculated as
                       √̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
       d(xt , xv (i)) = ‖xt − xv (i)‖2 , i = 1, 2, ⋯, NV                                                                                                  (15)

where NV represents the number of samples in the verification dataset X V .
    After the NV Euclidean distances d(xt , xv (i)), d(xt , xv (2)), ⋯, d(xt , xv (NV )) are obtained, these Euclidean distances are sorted from
small to large. The samples xv (k), k = 1, 2, ⋯, K2 in the dataset XV corresponding to the first K2 smallest Euclidean distances are
selected to establish the nearest neighbor sample subset Xsub . Note that the fault pattern of these K2 samples in the verification dataset
XV is known in advance.
    In accordance with the k-nearest neighbor algorithm [43], the current fault snapshot sample xt can be represented by the weight of
its K2 nearest neighbors in the established subset Xsub . Consequently, the fault diagnosis result of the sample xt is equivalent to the fault
pattern identification results of its K2 neighbors in the neighbor subset X sub .
    Based on the above principle, all the C various basic ELM fault diagnosis models are utilized to recognize the fault pattern of the K2
nearest neighbors in the subset Xsub . After that, the average fault diagnosis accuracy ACCaverage of the C basic ELM models is computed
as

                       1 ∑C
        ACCaverage =         ACC(i)                                                                                                                       (16)
                       C i=1

where the ACC(i), i = 1, 2, ⋯, C denotes the fault diagnosis accuracy of the neighbors in the subset Xsub for the i-th basic ELM model.
    The P basic ELM model whose fault diagnosis accuracy ACC(p), p = 1, 2, ⋯, P is larger than the average accuracy ACCaverage is
selected to constitute the final ensemble ELM fault diagnosis model.

5.2.2. Identify the fault pattern of the snapshot sample
   As is known to all, the closer distances the data samples reveal, the higher similarities these data samples have. As a consequence,
we determine the weights of the P selected basic ELM fault diagnosis models by jointly considering the fault pattern identification




                                 Fig. 10. The procedure of the superior basic ELM fault diagnosis models selection strategy.


                                                                             11
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                   Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


results of the samples in the neighbor subset Xsub as well as the distances between the fault snapshot sample xt and its K2 nearest
neighbors. Specifically, to integrate the final ensemble ELM based fault diagnosis model, the weight factor αpt of the p-th chosen basic
ELM model is calculated in our work as follows:
                      (          )
             1 ∑ K2
                     I oiv , yiv
       αpt =                                                                                                                        (17)
             Dt i=1 d(xt , xv (i))

                                                                                                                                            p           ∑P
where d(xt , xv (i)) denotes the Euclidean distance between the fault snapshot sample xt and its i-th nearest neighbors xv (i). Dt =   p=1 αt
                                  i                                                                                    i
indicates the normalized factor, yv represents the real category label vector of the i-th nearest neighbor xv (i) and ov is the output of the
p-th basic ELM model corresponding to the sample xv (i).
    In addition, I(oiv , yiv ) is determined as follows in this paper.
                      {                  (    )           (     )
         (         )    1 ， if argmax oiv (j) = argmax yiv (j) ，j ∈ {1, ⋯, C}
        I oiv , yiv =                                                                                                                                        (18)
                                                 0 ，else

where argmax(yiv (j)) represent the real category of the neighbor sample xv (i) and argmax(oiv (j)) indicate the p-th basic ELM’s fault
pattern recognition result related to the neighbor sample xv (i).
    At last, the pattern of the fault snapshot sample xt is identified by the finally constructed selective ensemble ELM based fault
diagnosis model according to a weighted voting mechanism. Particularly, let opt (i) denote the value of the i-th output node in the p-th
selected basic ELM model when classifying the sample xt , the category label of the fault snapshot sample xt is determined as
                              ∑
                              P
        label(xt ) = argmax         αpt opt (i), i ∈ {1, ⋯, C}                                                                                               (19)
                              p=1



6. The presented HRIELM based chiller fault diagnosis in the imbalanced data environment
   As illustrated in Fig. 11, our proposed HRIELM based chiller fault diagnosis scheme involves two portions: the HRT based multiple
basic ELMs offline modeling stage and the pattern of fault snapshot sample online diagnosis stage. Specifically, the HRT based multiple
basic ELMs offline modeling stage consists of the hybrid resampling module and the basic ELM models training module, while the
pattern of fault snapshot sample online diagnosis stage contains the selective ensemble ELM model construction module and the fault
pattern identification module. The details of the developed HRIELM based fault diagnosis strategy are expressed as follows.




                                         Fig. 11. The flowchart of the suggested HRIELM based fault identification scheme.


                                                                                12
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                            Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


6.1. The HRT based multiple basic ELMs offline modeling
   (1) Collect the C kinds of historical fault pattern datasets to construct the original imbalanced dataset X imb and the validation
       dataset XV . The two datasets X imb and XV are then normalized to be zero mean and unit variance according to the original
       imbalanced dataset Ximb .
   (2) Regard the i-th fault pattern dataset X Fi , i = 1, 2, ⋯, C as the benchmark dataset X 0 . The proposed HRT approach is adopted to
       resample the original imbalanced dataset Ximb to achieve a rebalanced training dataset X reb (i).
   (3) Repeat the HRT approach C times to obtain a total of C different rebalanced training datasets Xreb (1), X reb (2), ⋯, Xreb (C), by
       treating each of the fault pattern datasets XF1 , XF2 , ⋯, XFC as the benchmark dataset.
   (4) Train the number of C various basic ELM fault diagnosis models on these diverse rebalanced training datasets X reb (1), Xreb (2),
       ⋯, Xreb (C) via implementing the training procedure of the ELM recommended in Section 5.1 C times.


6.2. The pattern of fault snapshot sample online diagnosis
   (1) Establish the neighbor subset X sub by searching the nearest neighbor samples of the fault snapshot sample xt in the verification
       dataset XV .
   (2) Employ all the C various trained basic ELM models to recognize the fault pattern of the samples in the neighbor subset X sub . The
       average fault diagnosis accuracy ACCaverage is then calculated according to Eq. (16).
   (3) Select the P superior basic ELM models whose fault diagnosis accuracies ACC(p), p = 1, 2, ⋯, P for the neighbor subset Xsub are
       greater than the average accuracy ACCaverage .
   (4) Determine the weights of the P selected basic ELM models based on Eq. (17) to integrate the final ensemble ELM based fault
       diagnosis model. The pattern of the fault snapshot sample xt is identified by the finally constructed selective ensemble ELM
       according to a weighted voting mechanism defined in Eq. (19).

7. The experiments and comparisons on the chiller with imbalanced data
7.1. Introduction of the experimental imbalanced data
    In this paper, the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) research project No. RP-
1043 dataset available at https://www.techstreet.com/ashrae/searches/36470950 is utilized to prove the fault diagnosis capability of
the developed HRIELM method in detail. The RP-1043 experimental dataset is a benchmark dataset, which is commonly adopted to
examine the effectiveness of the fault identification approaches [32,40,44,45]. In order to reveal the influences of different fault
severity levels on the fault diagnosis performance, the original dataset is further segmented into 4 diverse data subsets, i.e., Level-1,
Level-2, Level-3, and Level-4, which represent the 4 different severity levels. The fault severity levels in these four subsets change from
small to large, and each subset contains seven historical fault pattern datasets and one normal operation dataset. Detailed information
on seven classic fault patterns under different severity levels and their abbreviations are shown in Table 1. According to references [32,
44], 16 process variables are applied to perform the fault diagnosis of the chiller.
    In our work, each fault severity level dataset consists of seven different fault pattern subsets shown in Table 1. To relieve the
computation complexity, each fault pattern subset in the different severity level datasets is set to contain 1000 fault samples. For each
fault severity level, 200 fault samples are randomly selected form each fault pattern subset to construct the corresponding fault
snapshot dataset, and 80 samples are stochastically chosen form each fault pattern subset to establish the validation dataset. Therefore,
there are respectively a total of 1400 fault samples and 560 fault samples in the whole seven fault snapshot datasets and the validation
dataset for each fault severity level.
    Moreover, to generate the original imbalanced dataset for each fault severity level, seven various historical fault pattern subsets
with different sample numbers are produced from the remaining fault samples according to the data imbalance rate. Specifically, the
minimum sample number of the minority historical fault pattern subset and the maximum sample number of the minority historical
fault pattern subset are first calculated via a given data imbalance rate. Afterward, the sample numbers of other five imbalanced
historical fault pattern subsets are stochastically determined within the range of the minimum and maximum sample numbers. Hence,
in this paper, the fault sample numbers of the seven imbalanced historical fault pattern subsets in the original imbalanced dataset are
changing along with the value of the data imbalance rate.

Table 1
Different fault patterns and four different fault severity levels.

  Fault patterns                                                Four fault severity levels

                                                                Level-1 (%)                  Level-2 (%)       Level-3 (%)                  Level-4 (%)

  Condenser fouling (CF)                                        12                           20                30                           45
  Excess oil (EO)                                               14                           32                50                           68
  Refrigerant leak (RL)                                         − 10                         − 20              − 30                         − 40
  Refrigerant overcharge (RO)                                   10                           20                30                           40
  Reduced condenser water flow (FWC)                            − 10                         − 20              − 30                         − 40
  Reduced evaporator water flow (FWE)                           − 10                         − 20              − 30                         − 40
  Non-condensable gas in refrigerant (NC)                       1.0                          1.7               2.4                          5.7


                                                                                     13
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                     Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


7.2. Comparative methods and parameters setting
    For the sake of testifying the superiority of the developed HRIELM based fault diagnosis method, the bagging ELM (BGELM),
boosting ELM (BTELM), weighted ELM (WELM), and boost WELM (BWELM) based methods are contrasted with the suggested HRIELM
based approach. In the HRT based resampling method, the number of the nearest neighbor samples in the original minority classes is
selected as five. The activation function of the HRIELM is chosen as sigmoid function according to references [12,13]. The number of
HRIELM’s hidden neurons and its trade-off parameter are respectively selected from the ranges {1000, 2000, …, 9000} and.
    {10− 5, 10− 4, …, 105} by the grid search according to the fault diagnosis performance. In our work, the number of hidden neurons
and the trade-off parameter of the HRIELM are finally chosen as 2000 and 0.01, respectively. The number of basic ELM models is
determined according to the number of fault pattern datasets in the original imbalanced dataset, thus seven basic ELM models are
established for the subsequent presented selective ensemble learning strategy. Because 16 process variables are employed to carry out
the fault diagnosis and the fault snapshot sample can be classified into seven fault patterns, hence 16 neurons and 7 neurons are
respectively determined in each ELM’s input layer and output layer. For each fault snapshot sample, its five nearest neighbor samples
are searched in the verification dataset to build the nearest neighbor subset.
    To make a fair comparison, the sigmoid function is adopted as the activation function and the number of hidden neurons is set to be
2000 in the BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM based approaches. The values of the trade-off parameter for the BGELM, BTELM, and
BWELM are all set as 1, while the value of the trade-off parameter for the WELM method is chosen as 10 empirically. In addition, in the
BTELM and BTWELM, seven ELM models are trained as the basic ELM models, and the rate of training subset to the original train
dataset is set as 0.9. When the misclassification rate of the basic ELM models is less than 0.5, the weight of the basic ELM model is
calculated and the sample distribution is updated at the same time; otherwise, the current ELM basic model will be abandoned. Besides,
the maximum number of training times T is set as 50. In the BGELM, the number of basic ELM models is seven, and the rate of training
subset to the original train dataset is set as 0.8.


7.3. The fault diagnosis evaluation indices
   In order to appraise the diagnosis performance of the proposed HRIELM method under the imbalanced data environments, the data
imbalance rate (IR) index is introduced to measure the imbalance degree of the training datasets, which is expressed as
               min(Ni )
        IR =            , i = 1, 2, ⋯, C                                                                                                      (20)
               max(Ni )

where Ni , i = 1, 2, ..., C denotes the number of samples in each fault pattern dataset, min(Ni ) indicates the smallest number of samples in
the minority fault pattern dataset, max(Ni ) represents the largest number of samples in the majority fault pattern dataset. Note that, for
the original imbalanced chiller datasets with different values of the index IR, the minority and majority fault pattern datasets are
randomly determined instead of remaining constant.
   To assess the fault identification ability of the proposed HRIELM and other four compared methods, three different fault diagnosis
accuracy indices, i.e., the fault diagnosis accuracy ACC(i), i = 1, 2, ..., C of the fault snapshot samples in the i-th fault pattern dataset,
the overall fault diagnosis accuracy ACCtotal of all the fault snapshot samples in the C fault pattern datasets and the geometric mean of
the fault diagnosis accuracy (G-mean), are employed.
   Particularly, the index ACC(i) is defined as
                    Ni (i)
        ACC(i) =          , i = 1, ⋯, C                                                                                                       (21)
                     Ni

where Ni (i) represents the number of correctly identified fault snapshot samples in the i-th fault pattern dataset.
   The index ACCtotal indicates the ratio of the number of all the correctly identified fault snapshot samples to the total number of the
fault snapshot samples in the C fault pattern datasets, which is calculated as
                 ∑C
                    i=1 Ni (i)
       ACCtotal = ∑   C                                                                                                             (22)
                      i=1 Ni

   Considering the data imbalance problem of the chiller, the geometric mean of the fault diagnosis accuracy, i.e., the G-mean, for
every fault snapshot dataset computed in Eq. (23) is further utilized to estimate the fault diagnosis effectiveness. The index G-mean is

Table 2
Sample numbers in the imbalanced and rebalanced datasets for IR = 0.05.

  Fault pattern                             Sample number in the imbalanced dataset                     Sample number in the rebalanced dataset

  CF                                        63                                                          350
  EO                                        700                                                         350
  FWC                                       350                                                         350
  FEW                                       246                                                         350
  NC                                        36                                                          350
  RL                                        381                                                         350
  RO                                        367                                                         350


                                                                           14
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                   Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


one of the most commonly used indices to evaluate the fault identification performance under imbalanced data environments [46].
                     (                 )1/C
                         ∏
                         C
        G − mean =             ACC(i)                                                                                                                       (23)
                         i=1


7.4. Experimental results and comparisons
7.4.1. The performance analysis of the developed HRT approach
    In order to testify the resampling performance of our developed HRT method when handling the imbalanced datasets of the chiller,
the original imbalanced dataset IR = 0.05 corresponding to the fault severity degree Level-1 is first adopted in our work. As previously
mentioned, the fault patterns in the fault severity degree Level-1 can be considered as incipient faults because they have the smallest
severity degree. Table 2 gives out the different numbers of the samples in the seven diverse fault pattern datasets. As displayed in
Table 2, the dataset of fault pattern EO has the largest number of samples, which involves 700 samples. While the dataset of fault
pattern NC with only 36 samples owns the smallest number of samples. Therefore, these original fault pattern datasets are extremely
imbalanced. The dataset of fault pattern FWC containing 350 samples is regarded as the current benchmark dataset, and the HRT
method is carried out only once to rebalance these imbalanced fault pattern datasets. From Table 2, after implementing the HRT
method, the seven different fault pattern datasets are all resampled to be balanced datasets, each of which possesses 350 samples. To
make a more intuitionistic comparison, the number of the samples in these seven different fault pattern datasets before and after
performing the presented HRT approach are illustrated in Fig. 12.
    To further confirm the superior effectiveness of the suggested HRT method for rebalancing the imbalanced datasets, the HRT
resampling approach is compared with an adaptive synthetic (ADASYN) sampling approach [47,48] which is a typical over-sampling
method in this section. Three imbalanced datasets of the fault patterns EO, NC, and FWC shown in Table 2 before and after rebalancing
are visualized in the low-dimension space by taking advantage of the principal component analysis (PCA) technique. For the HRT
resampling approach, the chosen three datasets of the fault patterns EO, NC, and FWC respectively represent the majority class,
minority class, and the benchmark class datasets. Considering the ADASYN is an over-sampling method, the fault pattern EO dataset
containing the largest number of samples is regarded as the benchmark class dataset and the fault patterns NC and FWC are both
determined as the minority class datasets during the implementation of the ADASYN based data rebalancing algorithm. Fig. 13 reveals
the data separation results of these three fault pattern datasets before and after resampling by the HRT and the ADASYN in the PCA
principal component space. According to Fig. 13 (a), the three imbalanced fault pattern datasets before performing the HRT and the
ADASYN are clearly separated from each other. From Fig. 13(b), we can see that the three rebalanced fault pattern datasets after
performing the HRT are also projected far away from each other. Besides, these three rebalanced datasets are evidently overlapped
together with the corresponding imbalanced datasets. As shown in Fig. 13 (c), although the rebalanced fault pattern FWC dataset is
also overlapped together with the corresponding imbalanced datasets after implementing the ADASYN, many synthetic samples in the
rebalanced fault pattern NC dataset clearly deviate from the original NC dataset. This phenomenon exhibits that the data rebalancing
effect of the ADASYN is worse than that of the developed HRT. The scatter diagrams of these three fault pattern datasets before and
after carrying out the HRT and the ADASYN, which achieved in the PCA residual space, are illustrated in Fig. 14. As can be seen from
Fig. 14 (b), for the HRT, data separation and overlapping results of these three imbalanced and rebalanced fault pattern datasets are
similar to the scatter diagrams exhibited in Fig. 13. However, for the ADASYN shown in Fig. 14 (c), most synthetic samples of the
rebalanced fault patterns NC and FWC datasets are clearly separated from the corresponding imbalanced datasets, while only a small
amount of the synthetic samples are overlapped together with the previous ones. This again manifests that the HRT outperforms the
ADASYN in terms of rebalancing the imbalanced datasets.
    Based on the experimental and comparative results given above, we can see that the developed HRT approach can not only balance
the numbers of samples in the various fault pattern datasets but also keep the resampled samples having strong consistency with the
samples in original datasets. As a consequence, the developed HRT approach is very suitable for solving the problem of the chiller’s
data imbalance, which is significantly beneficial to the improvement of the chiller fault diagnosis capability.




                               Fig. 12. The histogram of the sample numbers in the imbalanced and rebalanced datasets for IR = 0.05.


                                                                                15
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                             Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338




                          Fig. 13. The imbalanced and rebalanced datasets visualization in the PCA principle component space.


7.4.2. Comparisons for the severity degree Level-1
     Compared with the other fault severity degrees, the faults corresponding to the severity degree Level-1 are more different to
identify because they are incipient faults. Therefore, the imbalanced chiller datasets with different values of the index IR are applied to
prove the superior fault diagnosis ability of the developed HRIELM based scheme.
7.4.2.1. The fault diagnosis performance comparisons for IR = 0.1. The imbalanced dataset with IR = 0.1 of the severity degree Level-1
is first employed to evaluate the effectiveness of the HRIELM based scheme. The detailed sample numbers for this imbalanced dataset
which consists of the seven diverse fault pattern subsets are given out in Table 3. According to the definition of the index IR, the
minority and majority fault pattern subsets are randomly set up in imbalanced datasets with different index IR values. As exhibited in
Table 3, the seven diverse fault pattern subsets own significantly different numbers of the fault samples. In particular, the fault pattern
FEW subset contains 350 samples, which is the largest number of the fault samples. While the fault pattern EO subset has the smallest
number of the fault samples, with only 36 samples. To settle the issue of data imbalance, we adopt the proposed HRT approach once to
rebalance these seven imbalanced fault pattern subsets by treating the fault pattern CF subset as the benchmark dataset. Therefore, as
shown in Table 3, every rebalanced fault pattern subset involves 205 fault samples. For a more intuitionistic comparison, the numbers
of the samples in the imbalanced and rebalanced seven fault pattern subsets displayed in Table 3 are drawn as the bar charts in Fig. 15.
     After the original imbalanced dataset is rebalanced utilizing the HRT by regarding each fault pattern subset as the benchmark
dataset, the HRIELM based approach is further implemented to diagnose the fault patterns of the snapshot datasets. The fault diagnosis
results of the HRIELM, BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM are calculated and exhibited in Fig. 16 and Table 4. Specifically, the
confusion matrices of the five fault diagnosis approaches are displayed in Fig. 16.
     As revealed in Fig. 16, the figures in the deep green squares denote the numbers of correctly identified fault snapshot samples, and
the figures in the light green squares indicate the numbers of fault snapshot samples that are incorrectly identified. In the case of
Fig. 16, the figures in the light green squares in the fourth column of Fig. 16(a), (b), (c), and (d) are much larger than those in the fourth
column of Fig. 16 (e). Therefore, BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM are more likely than the HRIELM to diagnose the fault pattern


                                                                          16
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                 Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338




                                   Fig. 14. The imbalanced and rebalanced datasets visualization in the PCA residual space.



Table 3
Sample numbers in the imbalanced and rebalanced datasets for IR = 0.1.

  Fault patterns                             Sample number in the imbalanced dataset                                Sample number in the rebalanced dataset

  CF                                         205                                                                    205
  EO                                         36                                                                     205
  FWC                                        280                                                                    205
  FEW                                        350                                                                    205
  NC                                         280                                                                    205
  RL                                         132                                                                    205
  RO                                         67                                                                     205




                            Fig. 15. The histogram of the sample numbers in the imbalanced and rebalanced datasets for IR = 0.1.




                                                                             17
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                              Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338




        Fig. 16. The confusion matrices for the five fault diagnosis methods when IR = 0.1, (a) BGELM, (b) BTELM, (c) WELM, (d) BWELM, (e) HRIELM.


FEW as the other fault patterns by mistake. On the whole, Fig. 16(a), (b), (c), and (d) all exhibit more light green squares than Fig. 16
(e), which demonstrates that the BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM incorrectly classified more snapshot samples of the seven fault
patterns than the HRIELM.


                                                                           18
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                   Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338

Table 4
Comparison of the index ACC values for the five methods under IR = 0.1.

  Diagnosis methods             CF                 EO                     FWC               FEW                 NC                 RL                  RO

  BGELM                         93.00%             66.50%                 92.00%            89.50%              94.00%             77.00%              60.50%
  BTELM                         87.50%             63.50%                 91.00%            88.50%              94.50%             81.00%              66.50%
  WELM                          92.00%             73.00%                 77.50%            86.50%              93.50%             78.00%              68.00%
  BWELM                         90.50%             77.00%                 80.50%            85.50%              95.00%             79.50%              72.00%
  HRIELM                        96.00%             81.50%                 96.50%            97.50%              96.50%             90.00%              87.50%



    The fault diagnosis accuracies of the HRIELM, BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM are further revealed in Table 4. As can be seen
from Table 4, the index ACC values of the developed HRIELM are much larger than that of the other four approaches, especially for the
fault patterns RO and EO which consist of the smallest numbers of the fault samples. Specifically, for the fault pattern RO, the value of
the index ACC for the HRIELM method is 87.50%, which respectively increases by 27%, 21%, 19.5%, and 15.5% compared with that of
the BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM. Similarly, the HRIELM’s index ACC value (81.5%) for the fault pattern EO is respectively
15%, 18%, 8.5%, and 4.5% more than that of the BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM. For the convenience of comparison, the fault
diagnosis accuracies of the five methods are visualized in Fig. 17. According to Fig. 17, the intuitionistic comparison proves the
remarkable fault diagnosis effectiveness of the HRIELM over the BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM, in terms of identifying all the
seven fault patterns.
7.4.2.2. The fault diagnosis performance comparisons for IR = 0.6. Another imbalanced dataset with IR = 0.6 is further used to measure
the performance of the five approaches. Table 5 reveals the sample numbers in the seven imbalanced fault pattern subsets in detail. As
shown in Table 5, the fault pattern CF subset possesses the largest number of fault samples, i.e., the 360 samples. Nevertheless, there
are only 216 fault samples in the fault pattern FWC subset, which is the smallest number of the samples. Before conducting the fault
diagnosis, the presented HRT method is employed to figure out the imbalanced chiller dataset based on the fault pattern RL subset.
Hence, each of the seven rebalanced fault pattern subsets retains 280 fault samples. To make a vivid analysis, the sample numbers in
the seven fault pattern subsets before and after performing the HRT are illustrated in Fig. 18.
    The developed HRIELM based method is further conducted to recognize the fault patterns of the snapshot datasets after the HRT is
performed seven times to acquire the seven diverse rebalanced datasets. The confusion matrices of the HRIELM, BGELM, BTELM,
WELM, and BWELM are shown in Fig. 19. According to Fig. 19, the figure in the deep green square of the second column in Fig. 19(e) is
much larger than those of the second column in Fig. 19(a), (b), (c), and (d). This scene means that the proposed HRIELM correctly
discerns more fault snapshot samples of the fault pattern EO than the other four diagnosis methods. In an overall view, there are more
light green squares in Fig. 19(a), (b), (c), and (d) than those in Fig. 19(e), which illustrates that compared with the HRIELM, more fault
snapshots samples are wrongly divided into the other different fault patterns by the BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM.
    The fault diagnosis accuracies of these five approaches are also given out in Table 6. Among the five methods, the HRIELM achieves
the largest values of the index ACC to diagnose all seven fault patterns. For instance, the HRIELM’s index ACC value for the minority
class fault pattern FWC is 93.00%, which increases by 7%, 11.5%, 13.5%, and 10% in comparison with that of the BGELM, BTELM,
WELM, and BWELM. To make an ulteriorly contrast, the fault diagnosis accuracies of the five identification approaches are represented
graphically in Fig. 20. Therefore, the experimental results show that the presented HRIELM is superior over the BGELM, BTELM,
WELM, and BWELM to identify the chiller’s faults under the imbalanced data environment with IR = 0.6.
    In our work, each fault pattern subset’s sample number is randomly determined when the value of the index IR changes. For IR =
0.1, the sample number of each fault pattern is randomly selected between 36 and 350, while for IR = 0.6, each fault pattern’s sample
number is randomly chosen from 126 to 360. In the experiment, the sample numbers of the fault patterns CF, EO, NC, RL, and RO in the
imbalanced dataset with IR = 0.6 are much larger than those in the imbalanced dataset with IR = 0.1. Hence, compared with the
imbalanced dataset with IR = 0.1, the fault diagnosis accuracies of the above five fault patterns increase for the imbalanced dataset
with IR = 0.6. However, when the value of the index IR rises from 0.1 to 0.6, the sample number of the fault pattern FWC reduces from




                                            Fig. 17. The fault diagnosis accuracies of the five methods for IR = 0.1.


                                                                                19
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                               Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338

Table 5
Sample numbers in the imbalanced and rebalanced datasets for IR = 0.6.

  Fault patterns                             Sample number in the imbalanced dataset                               Sample number in the rebalanced dataset

  CF                                         360                                                                   280
  EO                                         218                                                                   280
  FWC                                        216                                                                   280
  FEW                                        325                                                                   280
  NC                                         350                                                                   280
  RL                                         280                                                                   280
  RO                                         234                                                                   280




                            Fig. 18. The histogram of the sample numbers in the imbalanced and rebalanced datasets for IR = 0.6.


280 to 215 and the sample number of the fault pattern FEW decreases from 350 to 325. This leads to a slight reduction of the fault
diagnosis accuracies for the fault patterns FWC and FEW in the imbalanced dataset with IR = 0.6.
7.4.2.3. Comparisons of the indices ACCtotal and G-mean for the IR = 0.1 and IR = 0.6. To further test the diagnosis effectiveness of the
chiller under the imbalanced data environments, the values of overall fault diagnosis accuracy ACCtotal and G-mean for the HRIELM,
BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM under the conditions IR = 0.1 and IR = 0.6 are listed in Table 7. Although the sample numbers in
the seven fault patterns are much more imbalanced when IR = 0.1 than those when IR = 0.6, the differences between the values of the
HRIELM’s indices ACCtotal and G-mean are the smallest for IR = 0.1 and IR = 0.6 among the five approaches, which are respectively
only 0.17% and 0.03%. Nevertheless, the differences between the indices ACCtotal and G-mean values are much larger for the BGELM,
BTELM, WELM, and BWELM. Specifically, these differences are 1.09%, 0.84%, 0.49%, and 0.33% for IR = 0.1 and 0.12%, 0.15%,
0.51%, and 0.19% for IR = 0.6. The slight differences between the HRIELM’s indices ACCtotal and G-mean for various IR values prove
the superiority of the HRIELM for implementing the imbalanced data based chiller fault diagnosis.
    To make a further comparison, the line charts of the indices ACCtotal and G-mean for the five fault diagnosis approaches under the
conditions IR = 0.1 and IR = 0.6 are exhibited in Fig. 21. As can be seen from Fig. 21, the values of indices ACCtotal and G-mean of the
five methods are significant improved when IR = 0.6 compared with those when IR = 0.1. To be specific, because the sample numbers
in the seven fault patterns are seriously imbalanced when IR = 0.1, the values of the index ACCtotal for the BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and
BWELM are very different from the values of the index G-mean. While the index ACCtotal value of the suggested HRIELM is still similar
to the index G-mean value, due to the HRIELM’s excellent capability of managing the imbalanced data. On the contrary, the sample
numbers in the seven fault patterns are relatively balanced when IR = 0.6. Consequently, the values of the index ACCtotal for the five
methods are close to the values of the index G-mean. In particular, the HRIELM’s index ACCtotal value is almost completely coincided
with the value of its G-mean.
7.4.2.4. Comparisons of the fault diagnosis results with IR varying from 0.1 to 1. To inspect the fault identification effectiveness of the
presented HRIELM method under different data imbalance rates, the recognition results of the HRIELM, BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and
BWELM for the multiple imbalanced datasets with the index IR varying from 0.1 to 1 are computed and displayed in Table 8 and
Fig. 22. As revealed in Table 8, when the IR changes from 0.1 to 1, the HRIELM’s ACCtotal values are all above 92.00% and they unfold
the smallest variations among the five methods. In particular, the biggest distinction of the HRIELM’s ACCtotal with the varying values
of IR is calculated as only 3.08%. Whereas the values of ACCtotal for the BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM are respectively all below
87.70%, 87.20%, 88.10%, and 90.90% and they uncover much larger variations than those of the HRIELM when the IR changes from
0.1 to 1. Particularly, the biggest distinctions of the index ACCtotal values for the BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM are respectively
17.07%, 13.28%, 14.86%, and 14.72% with the IR varying. Meanwhile, during the IR changing from 0.1 to 1, the HRIELM’s G-mean
values are always the largest and they also display the smallest variations among the five fault diagnosis methods. To be specific, when
the value of IR varies, the values of the G-mean for the HRIELM are all above 91.9% and the biggest distinction of the G-mean is
computed to be only 3.34%.
    Furthermore, the values of the ACCtotal and G-mean for the five approaches under different IR values are visualized in Fig. 22, where


                                                                            20
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                              Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338




        Fig. 19. The confusion matrices for the five fault diagnosis methods when IR = 0.6, (a) BGELM, (b) BTELM, (c) WELM, (d) BWELM, (e) HRIELM.


the HRIELM’s ACCtotal values are denoted as the block square line and the HRIELM’s G-mean values are represented as the red dot line.
It can be seen from Fig. 22(a) and (b), the lines of the HRIELM’s ACCtotal and G-mean are both above the corresponding lines of the
other four approaches. Thus, the HRIELM is more efficient to diagnose the chiller fault under different data imbalance rates than the
BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM.
    In addition, according to Fig. 22, the indices ACCtotal and G-mean values of the five fault diagnosis methods suddenly decrease for


                                                                           21
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                    Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338

Table 6
The comparison of the index ACC values for the five methods under IR = 0.6.

  Diagnosis methods             CF                 EO                   FWC                  FEW                NC                  RL                  RO

  BGELM                         91.50%             89.00%               86.00%               86.50%             92.50%              84.00%              78.50%
  BTELM                         90.50%             88.50%               81.50%               82.50%             94.00%              79.00%              84.50%
  WELM                          94.00%             90.00%               79.50%               84.00%             94.50%              67.50%              81.50%
  BWELM                         95.50%             85.50%               83.00%               85.50%             95.00%              80.00%              81.00%
  HRIELM                        98.00%             95.50%               93.00%               92.50%             97.50%              93.00%              90.00%




                                           Fig. 20. The identification accuracies of the five approaches for IR = 0.6.



Table 7
The comparison of the indices ACCtotal and G-mean for the five methods when IR = 0.1 and IR = 0.6.

  Diagnosis methods                           IR = 0.1                                                               IR = 0.6

                                              ACCtotal                              G-mean                           ACCtotal                           G-mean

  BGELM                                       81.79%                                80.70%                           86.86%                             86.74%
  BTELM                                       81.79%                                80.95%                           85.79%                             85.64%
  WELM                                        81.21%                                80.72%                           84.43%                             83.94%
  BWELM                                       82.86%                                82.53%                           86.50%                             86.31%
  HRIELM                                      92.21%                                92.04%                           94.21%                             94.18%




                         Fig. 21. The line charts of the indices ACCtotal and G-mean for the five methods when IR = 0.1 and IR = 0.6.


IR = 0.3 and then gradually increase again when IR varies from 0.4 to 1. This phenomenon results from the numbers of samples in
various fault pattern subsets that are randomly determined from different numerical intervals for IR ≤ 0.3 and IR ≥ 0.4 in our work.
Table 9 gives out the different numerical intervals applied to randomly select the sample numbers of the diverse fault pattern subsets in
an imbalanced dataset when IR changes from 0.1 to 1. As exhibited in Table 9, with the value of IR increases from 0.1 to 0.3, the
numerical interval becomes smaller and smaller. In particular, when IR = 0.3, the numerical interval decreases to the minimum [13,
15]. This means that when IR = 0.3, the fault pattern subsets in an imbalanced dataset would have the minimum sample numbers
compared with those under the other different IR values. Therefore, for IR = 0.3, the limited sample numbers of the fault pattern

                                                                               22
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                     Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338

Table 8
The comparison of the indices ACCtotal and G-mean for the five methods with IR varying from 0.1 to 1.

  IR         BGELM                          BTELM                         WELM                           BWELM                             HRIELM

             ACCtotal       G-mean          ACCtotal       G-mean         ACCtotal           G-mean      ACCtotal         G-mean           ACCtotal      G-mean

  0.1        81.79%         80.70%          81.79%         80.95%          81.21%            80.72%      82.86%           82.53%           92.21%        92.04%
  0.2        83.36%         82.51%          82.64%         81.92%          84.86%            83.85%      85.71%           85.23%           93.43%        93.32%
  0.3        70.57%         61.86%          73.86%         64.60%          73.14%            69.14%      76.14%           71.09%           94.43%        94.39%
  0.4        77.79%         76.74%          77.57%         76.50%          81.50%            79.82%      82.86%           81.33%           92.07%        91.92%
  0.5        80.29%         79.35%          79.71%         78.58%          81.86%            80.39%      83.71%           82.19%           92.71%        92.57%
  0.6        86.86%         86.74%          85.79%         85.64%          84.43%            83.94%      86.50%           86.31%           94.21%        94.18%
  0.7        82.93%         81.75%          83.21%         82.23%          84.00%            83.14%      86.29%           85.07%           93.64%        93.62%
  0.8        84.36%         83.38%          84.50%         83.35%          84.86%            84.25%      88.00%           86.44%           94.21%        94.20%
  0.9        86.07%         85.36%          86.64%         86.01%          87.29%            86.72%      90.86%           89.79%           94.64%        94.62%
  1          87.64%         86.94%          87.14%         86.56%          88.00%            87.49%      90.43%           89.57%           95.29%        95.26%




                         Fig. 22. The line charts of the indices ACCtotal and G-mean for the five methods with IR varying from 0.1 to 1.



Table 9
The intervals utilized to randomly determine the sample numbers under different IR values.

  IR                                                                                                                            The interval [min (Ni), max (Ni)]

  0.1                                                                                                                           [36, 350]
  0.2                                                                                                                           [36, 175]
  0.3                                                                                                                           [36, 88]
  0.4                                                                                                                           [36, 117]
  0.5                                                                                                                           [180, 360]
  0.6                                                                                                                           [216, 360]
  0.7                                                                                                                           [252, 360]
  0.8                                                                                                                           [288, 360]
  0.9                                                                                                                           [324, 360]
  1                                                                                                                             [359, 360]



subsets result in the ACCtotal and G-mean values of the five methods abruptly decreasing. On the contrary, with IR raising from 0.4 to 1,
the sample numbers of the fault pattern subsets in an imbalanced dataset go on growing. This situation brings about the ACCtotal and
G-mean values increasing by degrees when IR changes from 0.4 to 1.

7.4.3. Comparisons for the severity degrees Level-2 ~ Level-4
    The recognition results of the HRIELM, BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM based approaches for the other three fault severity
levels, i.e., Level-2, Level-3, and Level-4, are further estimated to examine the performance influences of different fault severity levels.
As shown in Fig. 23, for the three fault severity levels, the indices ACCtotal and G-mean values of the five fault diagnosis approaches all
fluctuate up and down along with different IR values. Although the values of the HRIELM’s diagnosis performance indices slightly
decline for IR = 0.3, the HRIELM obtains the largest and the most stable ACCtotal and G-mean values among the five methods for the
fault severity degrees Level-2, Level-3, and Level-4. Again, the visualized comparisons of fault diagnosis results exhibited in Fig. 23
prove the excellent fault diagnosis capability of the HRIELM, in terms of different fault severity levels and varying data imbalance


                                                                               23
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                               Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338




                            Fig. 23. The ACCtotal and G-mean values of the five methods for different fault severity levels.


rates.

8. Conclusions
    A novel HRIELM based scheme is suggested to diagnose the chiller fault under the imbalanced data environments in our work. As
far as we know, we are the first to combine a new hybrid resampling technique with an improved selective ensemble ELM model to
identify the faults when the sample numbers of the historical fault pattern datasets are imbalanced. To be specific, our work has three


                                                                          24
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                       Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338


contributions. Firstly, the HRT technique is proposed to resample and rebalance the chiller’s imbalanced historical fault pattern
datasets, by fusing the SMOTE over-sampling method with the random under-sampling method. Secondly, to alleviate the compu­
tational complexity and lay a foundation for the subsequent modified selective ensemble learning strategy, the ELM is utilized as the
basic fault diagnosis model and a number of basic ELM diagnosis models are established on the multiple different rebalanced training
datasets. At last, an improved selective ensemble learning strategy is developed to diagnose the fault pattern of snapshot samples by
picking out and weighting the basic ELM models with superior performance, to further enhance the fault identification effectiveness of
the chiller and reduce the computational burden.
    Detailed experiments and comparisons implemented on the ASHRAE RP-1043 experimental datasets verify the excellent perfor­
mance of the proposed HRIELM scheme for the imbalanced data based chiller fault diagnosis. To be specific, in comparison with the
related adaptive synthetic (ADASYN) sampling approach, the developed HRT resampling technique reveals superior effectiveness to
deal with the problem of data imbalance by enlarging the minority classes and shrinking the majority classes. In addition, compared
with the relevant BGELM, BTELM, WELM, and BWELM based methods on four different severity levels imbalanced datasets with the
imbalance rate (IR) varying from 0.1 to 1, the experiments demonstrate the outstanding diagnosis performance and remarkable im­
provements of the proposed HRIELM based fault diagnosis scheme in terms of the three evaluation indices: fault diagnosis accuracy,
overall fault diagnosis accuracy, and geometric mean.
    In practice, it is always time-consuming and laborious to gather sufficient labeled operation data for the chiller’s different fault
patterns, while large amounts of the chiller’s unlabeled operation data are more easily to be collected. To tackle the tough issue of
imbalanced labeled and unlabeled operation data during recognizing fault, further studies are suggested to investigate some semi-
supervised learning based methods, such as the semi-supervised ELM, semi-supervised deep neural networks, and so on, to build
more reliable chiller fault diagnosis models.

Author statement
   Hanyuan Zhang*: Investigation, Methodology, Project administration, Supervision, Funding acquisition. Wenxin Yang: Concep­
tualization, Investigation, Software. Weilin Yi: Methodology, Investigation, Software. Jit Bing Lim: Conceptualization, Methodology,
Writing – original draft. Zenghui An: Data curation, Conceptualization, Writing – original draft. Chengdong Li: Software, Validation,
Visualization.

Declaration of competing interest
    The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
influence the work reported in this paper

Data availability

    Data will be made available on request.

Acknowledgments
   This study is partly supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (62003191, 62076150, 52005300, 62133008),
the Youth Innovation Team Technology Project of Higher School in Shandong Province (2022KJ204), the Natural Science Foundation
of Shandong Province (ZR2020QF072), the Key Research and Development Plan of Shandong Province for Major Scientific and
Technological Innovation Project (2021CXGC011205) and the Taishan Scholar Project of Shandong Province (TSQN201812092).

References
 [1] J. Chen, L. Zhang, Y. Li, et al., A review of computing-based automated fault detection and diagnosis of heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems,
     Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 161 (2022), 112395, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2022.112395.
 [2] M.S. Mirnaghi, F. Haghighat, Fault detection and diagnosis of large-scale HVAC systems in buildings using data-driven methods: a comprehensive review,
     Energy Build. 229 (2020), 110492, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2020.110492.
 [3] Z. Li, T. Zheng, Y. Wang, et al., A novel method for imbalanced fault diagnosis of rotating machinery based on generative adversarial networks, IEEE Trans.
     Instrum. Meas. 70 (2020) 1–17, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIM.2020.3009343.
 [4] Ke Yan, Chong Adrian, Yuchang Mo, Generative adversarial network for fault detection diagnosis of chillers, Build. Environ. 172 (2020), 106698, https://doi.
     org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2020.106698.
 [5] Cheng Fan, Xueqing Li, Yang Zhao, Jiayuan Wang, Quantitative assessments on advanced data synthesis strategies for enhancing imbalanced AHU fault
     diagnosis performance, Energy Build. 252 (2021), 111423, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2021.111423.
 [6] J. Chen, H. Huang, A.G. Cohn, et al., Machine learning-based classification of rock discontinuity trace: SMOTE oversampling integrated with GBT ensemble
     learning, Int. J. Min. Sci. Technol. 32 (2) (2022) 309–322, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmst.2021.08.004.
 [7] A.M. Zhang, H.L. Yu, S.L. Zhou, Z.J. Huan, X.B. Yang, Instance weighted SMOTE by indirectly exploring the data distribution, Knowl. Base Syst. 249 (2022),
     108919, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2022.108919.
 [8] S. Lu, P. Zhou, X. Wang, et al., Condition monitoring and fault diagnosis of motor bearings using unders-ampled vibration signals from a wireless sensor
     network, J. Sound Vib. 414 (2018) 81–96, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsv.2017.11.007.
 [9] M. Kabir, S. Ahmad, M. Iqbal, et al., Improving prediction of extracellular matrix proteins using evolutionary information via a grey system model and
     asymmetric under-sampling technique, Chemometr. Intell. Lab. Syst. 174 (2018) 22–32, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemolab.2018.01.004.
[10] Q. Hu, A. Qin, Q. Zhang, et al., Fault diagnosis based on weighted extreme learning machine with wavelet packet decomposition and KPCA, IEEE Sensor. J. 18
     (20) (2018) 8472–8483, https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2018.2866708.
[11] Y.Q. Chen, O. Fink, G. Sansavini, Combined fault location and classification for power transmission lines fault diagnosis with integrated feature extraction, IEEE
     Trans. Ind. Electron. 65 (1) (2017) 561–569, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIE.2017.2721922.


                                                                                  25
H. Zhang et al.                                                                                                           Journal of Building Engineering 70 (2023) 106338

[12] J. Liu, J. He, W. Zhang, et al., ANID-SEoKELM: adaptive network intrusion detection based on selective ensemble of kernel ELMs with random features, Knowl.
     Base Syst. 177 (2019) 104–116, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2019.04.008.
[13] C. Perales-Gonzalez, M. Carbonero-Ruz, D. Becerra-Alonso, et al., Regularized ensemble neural networks models in the Extreme Learning Machine framework,
     Neurocomputing 361 (2019) 196–211, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2019.06.040.
[14] S.X. Lv, L. Peng, H. Hu, et al., Effective machine learning model combination based on selective ensemble strategy for time series forecasting, Inf. Sci. 612 (2022)
     994–1023, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2022.09.002.
[15] H. Jin, Y. Li, B. Wang, et al., Adaptive forecasting of wind power based on selective ensemble of offline global and online local learning, Energy Convers. Manag.
     271 (2022), 116296, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2022.116296.
[16] X. Li, H. Jiang, M. Niu, et al., An enhanced selective ensemble deep learning method for rolling bearing fault diagnosis with beetle antennae search algorithm,
     Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 142 (2020), 106752, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymssp.2020.106752.
[17] T. Zhang, J. Chen, F. Li, et al., Intelligent fault diagnosis of machines with small & imbalanced data: a state-of-the-art review and possible extensions, ISA Trans.
     119 (2022) 152–171, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isatra.2021.02.042.
[18] A.P. Rogers, F. Guo, B.P. Rasmussen, A review of fault detection and diagnosis methods for residential air conditioning systems, Build. Environ. 161 (2019),
     106236, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2019.106236.
[19] J. Park, J.M. Ha, H. Oh, et al., Model-based fault diagnosis of a planetary gear: a novel approach using transmission error, IEEE Trans. Reliab. 65 (4) (2016)
     1830–1841, https://doi.org/10.1109/TR.2016.2590997.
[20] Zhen Zhao, , Peter Xiaoping Liu, Jinfeng Gao, Model-based fault diagnosis methods for systems with stochastic process -A survey, Neurocomputing 513 (2022)
     137–152, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2022.09.134.
[21] Vijay Singh, Jyotirmay Mathur, Aviruch Bhatia, A comprehensive review: fault detection, diagnostics, prognostics, and fault modeling in HVAC systems, Int. J.
     Refrig. 144 (2022) 283–295, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrefrig.2022.08.017.
[22] J. Wen, H. Yao, Z. Ji, et al., On fault diagnosis for high-g accelerometers via data-driven models, IEEE Sensor. J. 21 (2) (2020) 1359–1368, https://doi.org/
     10.1109/JSEN.2020.3019632.
[23] S. Asgari, R. Gupta, I.K. Puri, et al., A data-driven approach to simultaneous fault detection and diagnosis in data centers, Appl. Soft Comput. 110 (2021),
     107638, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2021.107638.
[24] A. Taal, L. Itard, P&ID-based automated fault identification for energy performance diagnosis in HVAC systems: 4S3F method, development of DBN models and
     application to an ATES system, Energy Build. 224 (2020), 110289, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2020.110289.
[25] Y. Fan, X. Cui, H. Han, et al., Feasibility and improvement of fault detection and diagnosis based on factory-installed sensors for chillers, Appl. Therm. Eng. 164
     (2020), 114506, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2019.114506.
[26] M. Bonvini, M.D. Sohn, J. Granderson, et al., Robust on-line fault detection diagnosis for HVAC components based on nonlinear state estimation techniques,
     Appl. Energy 124 (2014) 156–166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2014.03.009.
[27] R. Van de Sand, S. Corasaniti, J. Reiff-Stephan, Data-driven fault diagnosis for heterogeneous chillers using domain adaptation techniques, Control Eng. Pract.
     112 (2021), 104815, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.conengprac.2021.104815.
[28] D. Li, G. Hu, C.J. Spanos, A data-driven strategy for detection and diagnosis of building chiller faults using linear discriminant analysis, Energy Build. 128 (2016)
     519–529, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2016.07.014.
[29] J. Liu, D. Shi, G. Li, et al., Data-driven and association rule mining-based fault diagnosis and action mechanism analysis for building chillers, Energy Build. 216
     (2020), 109957, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2020.109957.
[30] Hanyuan Zhang, C. Li, D. Li, et al., Fault detection and diagnosis of the air handling unit via an enhanced kernel slow feature analysis approach considering the
     time-wise and batch-wise dynamics, Energy Build. 253 (2021), 111467, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2021.111467.
[31] Hanyuan Zhang, C. Li, Q. Wei, et al., Fault detection and diagnosis of the air handling unit via combining the feature sparse representation based dynamic SFA
     and the LSTM network, Energy Build. (2022), 112241, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2022.112241.
[32] C. Li, C. Shen, Hanyuan Zhang, et al., A novel temporal convolutional network via enhancing feature extraction for the chiller fault diagnosis, J. Build. Eng. 42
     (2021), 103014, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jobe.2021.103014.
[33] Y. Yu, Hanyuan Zhang, W. Peng, et al., Images based fault diagnosis of air handling unit via combining kernel slow feature analysis and deep learning method,
     J. Build. Eng. (2022), 104718, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jobe.2022.104718.
[34] Z. An, X. Jiang, R. Yang, Hanyuan Zhang, et al., Actively imaginative data augmentation for machinery diagnosis under large speed fluctuation conditions, IEEE
     Trans. Ind. Inf. (2023), https://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2022.3218737 in press.
[35] K. Xu, S. Li, X. Jiang, et al., A novel transfer diagnosis method under unbalanced sample based on discrete-peak joint attention enhancement mechanism, Knowl.
     Base Syst. 212 (2021), 106645, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2020.106645.
[36] N. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Zhao, et al., Search-based Cost-Sensitive Hypergraph Learning for Anomaly Detection, Information Sciences, 2022, https://doi.org/
     10.1016/j.ins.2022.07.029.
[37] F. Jiang, X. Yu, J. Du, et al., Ensemble learning based on approximate reducts and bootstrap sampling, Inf. Sci. 547 (2021) 797–813, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
     ins.2020.08.069.
[38] J. Wang, Y. Zhang, F. Zhang, et al., Accuracy-improved bearing fault diagnosis method based on AVMD theory and AWPSO-ELM model, Measurement 181
     (2021), 109666, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2021.109666.
[39] K. Yan, Z. Ji, H. Lu, et al., Fast and accurate classification of time series data using extended ELM: application in fault diagnosis of air handling units, IEEE
     Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems 49 (7) (2017) 1349–1356, https://doi.org/10.1109/TSMC.2017.2691774.
[40] Cunxiao Shen, Hanyuan Zhang, Songping Meng, Chengdong Li, Augmented data driven self-attention deep learning method for imbalanced fault diagnosis of
     the HVAC chiller, Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 117 (2023), 105540, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2022.105540.
[41] Z. Zhou, H. Chen, G. Li, et al., Data-driven fault diagnosis for residential variable refrigerant flow system on imbalanced data environments, Int. J. Refrig. 125
     (2021) 34–43, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrefrig.2021.01.009.
[42] G.B. Huang, Q.Y. Zhu, C.K. Siew, Extreme learning machine: theory and applications, Neurocomputing 70 (1–3) (2006) 489–501, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
     neucom.2005.12.126.
[43] P. Li, Z. Liu, B. Anduv, et al., Diagnosis for multiple faults of chiller using ELM-KNN model enhanced by multi-label learning and specific feature combinations,
     Build. Environ. 214 (2022), 108904, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2022.108904.
[44] M.C. Comstock, J.E. Braun, Development of Analysis Tools for the Evaluation of Fault Detection and Diagnostics in Chillers, ASHRAE Research Project RP-1043,
     American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Atlanta, 1999, pp. 20–99.
[45] J. Liu, D. Shi, G. Li, Y. Xie, K. Li, et al., Data-driven and association rule mining-based fault diagnosis and action mechanism analysis for building chillers, Energy
     Build. 216 (2020), 109957, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2020.109957.
[46] C.M. Vong, J. Du, C.M. Wong, et al., Postboosting using extended G-mean for online sequential multiclass imbalance learning, IEEE Transact. Neural Networks
     Learn. Syst. 29 (12) (2018) 6163–6177, https://doi.org/10.1109/TNNLS.2018.2826553.
[47] Haibo He, Bai Yang, E.A. Garcia, Shutao Li Adasyn, Adaptive Synthetic Sampling Approach for Imbalanced Learning. 2008 IEEE International Joint Conference
     on Neural Networks, IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence), Hong Kong, 2008, pp. 1322–1328, https://doi.org/10.1109/IJCNN.2008.4633969.
[48] Debaleena Datta, Pradeep Kumar Mallick, Annapareddy V.N. Reddy, et al., A hybrid classification of imbalanced hyperspectral images using ADASYN and
     enhanced deep subsampled multi-grained cascaded forest, Rem. Sens. 14 (19) (2022) 4853, https://doi.org/10.3390/rs14194853.




                                                                                    26
